welcome back intense fishroom in this
fourth installment on packaging shipping
fish we're going to talk about breather
bags like any piece of technology in the
aquarium hobby breather bags have their
uses they have their strengths and they
have their weaknesses for shipping fish
through the mail I am NOT a big fan of
using breeder bags I have traveled to
Africa on a couple occasions I've been
gone for multiple weeks at a time
collected fish and if it were not for
breeder bags I would not have been able
to bring back as many fish alive as I
did I believe that breeder bags have
revolutionized collecting fish in the
wild and getting them back to the hobby
from traveling to queres but I think of
their cost because they are expensive is
too high for worrying about using a
breeder bag to ship something overnight
but they're really useful for is when
you have to keep fish alive in a bag for
many days at a time so what is a
breather bag mom breather bag is
produced by cordon it's a special
polymer excuse me a special type of
plastic it has the ability to diffuse
oxygen and carbon dioxide through the
wall of the bag if you go to the cordon
website it has a lot of information
about how to use breather bags correctly
and I can tell you from experience a lot
of people do not use breathe air bags
correctly when I started using them for
shipping which I don't do a whole lot of
anymore
I was very careful to do what what
kordon told me to do I really didn't
have any problems whenever I travel
overseas and I bring fish back I use
them the way kordon tell us to use them
I don't have any problems but I hear
people complain about breather bags
they're not ask them questions I find
out they aren't really using them right
so we're going to talk a little bit
about using breather bags first off
there are not very many different sizes
of breather bags there used to be more
the cordon doesn't make them anymore
you'll notice the my breather bags this
one has got the cordon label
on it this one has got some writing on
it but the others don't have anything at
all because how I get my breather bags
as I get this breather bag this is a box
liner bag is 16 inches by 14 inches by
30 inches and if you clip off the bottom
of this bag and unzip it and click one
side of it you get this really big piece
of plastic that's me to breathe aback
and that's when your heat sealer comes
into use because I can use my heat
sealer and I can make any size breather
bag I want a lot of extra work but then
again I don't use these very often the
other thing that's nice about the this
size breather bag is it's a much thicker
mill weight it's not the real thin stuff
you know my experience the thinner
smaller bags they seep a little bit of
water leaks onto them so for shipping
purposes you want to use a thicker stuff
if you can get it so what did you use a
breather bag you fill it up with water
quite a bit of water and whereas
normally you would have air in the top
of the bag you want no air around inside
the bag with a breather bag with the
exception of fish that require air off
the surface so Bettis gouramis any an
abandoned quarry catfish all these fish
require a little bit of air in their
breath so you want make sure you leave a
little bit of air inside but without not
those kind of fish any other fish close
it off and see the water pour out of it
that's why I have a towel I'm going to
close it off around the water so it's a
wet mess another reason I don't like
messing with breather bags is that's
messy and now I'm going to use
rubberband and I'm going to tie it off
just like I normally would nice and
tight
there we go I'm gonna dry it off a
little bit there we have this nice cell
and what's happening is oxygen is
getting in carbon dioxide is getting out
and you can have a little fish in there
now when you're shipping fry very very
small fish they aren't going to fight
inside the bag you probably put ten
half-inch fry and set it back like this
not a problem one of the dangers a
breather bags however is that the fish
have to be completely purged of food if
fish start pooping inside the bag
because there's the oxygen flow in and
out of the bag is much slower than
oxygen between the air and the surface
of the water pH crashes are a lot faster
inside of a breather bag and ammonia
bill ammonia burn is a lot faster inside
of a breather bag so do not put fish
into a breather bag if they're going to
be in the bag for more than say 24 hours
if the fish have eaten say in the past
48 to 72 hours so if you're going to
with breather bags plan ahead and
make sure the fish are purged the
problem is that this is a lot of water
for very little surface area and the
distance between the space and the water
in the middle of that to the membrane
outside is quite a long way so it's not
really efficient gas transfer so what
the heat sealer allows you to do did you
put a fish inside here let's put a fish
in these Gras bees are going to work out
today now I can take my heat sealer and
I can run it all the way up the bag all
the way up to where the water is right
up next to the element and then I can
peg it with my heat sealer there cool
peel it off make sure it doesn't leak
all right
make sure doesn't leak it doesn't leak I
can take my razor blade where my razor
blade go here it is take my razor blade
trim off my excess
bring their bag and now I've got a very
flat breather bag